README.md, before:

# Fundamental Library for Angular

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx)

<a href="https://www.netlify.com">
  <img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/global/badges/netlify-light.svg" alt="Deploys by Netlify" />
</a>

## Content

-   [1. Description](#1)
-   [2. Requirements](#2)
-   [3. Known Issues](#3)
-   [4. Support](#4)
-   [5. Contributing](#5)
-   [6. License](#6)
-   [7. Similar Projects](#7)

## <a name="1"></a>1. Description

The Fundamental Library Styles is a design system and HTML/CSS component library used to build modern product user experiences with the SAP look and feel.

This repository contains 2 libraries(npm packages),

-   [@fundamental-ngx/core](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/tree/main/libs/core):
    The Fundamental-ngx core provides base angular implementation of Fundamental Library Styles to offer developers a rich set of components
    they can use when building angular applications. Fundamental-ngx core angular components provides the end developer with some degree of flexibility as most of the components allow finer customization directly on the HTML template level.

-   [@fundamental-ngx/platform](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/tree/main/libs/platform):
    The Fundamental-ngx platform is built on top of the core to both enhance existing functionality with additional features
    which are driven by application requirements and to provide higher abstraction for the components by hiding most of the internal implementation details which boosts productivity.

## <a name="2"></a>2. Requirements

To download and use Fundamental Library for Angular, you will first need to install the [node package manager](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm).

Fundamental Library for Angular is intended for use with Angular 15 or newer.

Prior knowledge of Angular is recommended, to use the fundamental-ngx library.

## <a name="3"></a>3. Known Issues

-   Please see [Issues](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/issues).
-   Contribution Known [Issues](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/wiki/Known-Contribution-Issues)

## <a name="4"></a>4. Support

If you encounter an issue, you can [create a ticket](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/issues).

## <a name="5"></a>5. Contributing

If you want to contribute, please check the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation for contribution guidelines. Please follow the [Angular commit message guidelines](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#commit).

Check out the [NEW_COMPONENT.md](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/blob/main/NEW_COMPONENT.md) guide on building a new component for the library and creating the necessary documentation for your new component.

## Similar Projects

## <a name="7"></a>7. Similar Projects

[Fundamental-react](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-react) - React implementation of Fundamental Library Styles

[Fundamental-vue](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-vue) - Vue implementation of Fundamental Library Styles

Commit message:

docs(core,platform): add support info in README.md

README.md, after:

# Fundamental Library for Angular

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx)

<a href="https://www.netlify.com">
  <img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/global/badges/netlify-light.svg" alt="Deploys by Netlify" />
</a>

## Content

-   [1. Description](#1)
-   [2. Requirements](#2)
-   [3. Known Issues](#3)
-   [4. Support](#4)
-   [5. Contributing](#5)
-   [6. License](#6)
-   [7. Similar Projects](#7)

## <a name="1"></a>1. Description

The Fundamental Library Styles is a design system and HTML/CSS component library used to build modern product user experiences with the SAP look and feel.

This repository contains 2 libraries(npm packages),

-   [@fundamental-ngx/core](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/tree/main/libs/core):
    The Fundamental-ngx core provides base angular implementation of Fundamental Library Styles to offer developers a rich set of components
    they can use when building angular applications. Fundamental-ngx core angular components provides the end developer with some degree of flexibility as most of the components allow finer customization directly on the HTML template level.

-   [@fundamental-ngx/platform](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/tree/main/libs/platform):
    The Fundamental-ngx platform is built on top of the core to both enhance existing functionality with additional features
    which are driven by application requirements and to provide higher abstraction for the components by hiding most of the internal implementation details which boosts productivity.

## <a name="2"></a>2. Requirements

To download and use Fundamental Library for Angular, you will first need to install the [node package manager](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm).

Fundamental Library for Angular is intended for use with Angular 15 or newer.

Prior knowledge of Angular is recommended, to use the fundamental-ngx library.

## <a name="3"></a>3. Known Issues

-   Please see [Issues](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/issues).
-   Contribution Known [Issues](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/wiki/Known-Contribution-Issues)

## <a name="4"></a>4. Support

If you encounter an issue, you can [create a ticket](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/issues).

Angular Versions Support: Our versions offer Angular support. More information can be found [here](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/wiki/Angular-Versions-Support).

-   Features and enhancements are developed to the latest version of fundamental-ngx.

-   Bugfixes could be downported to the latest ngx version, which which is compiled with second last Angular version.

## <a name="5"></a>5. Contributing

If you want to contribute, please check the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation for contribution guidelines. Please follow the [Angular commit message guidelines](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#commit).

Check out the [NEW_COMPONENT.md](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-ngx/blob/main/NEW_COMPONENT.md) guide on building a new component for the library and creating the necessary documentation for your new component.

## Similar Projects

## <a name="7"></a>7. Similar Projects

[Fundamental-react](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-react) - React implementation of Fundamental Library Styles

[Fundamental-vue](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental-vue) - Vue implementation of Fundamental Library Styles
